---
layout: post
title: Looking back at week 1
---

I could not have told you a year ago that I would be keeping a blog today, much less writing up posts using vim. In the past week, that was one of the easist things I accomplished and I learned about much more. 

My github account is much busier now that I use Git to access and update material. I am learning that the more I am exposed to, I discover how much I don't know (or put more optimistically, have yet to learn). Perhaps accepting this will help me with the bouts of imposter syndrome that will inevitably hit because this apparently is not a feeling unique to academia!

The number of resources available online regarding just about all of the subject matter taught at Metis is staggering! For this reason, I love the curated section directing me to "More Resources" should I decide to explore a subject in closer detail. Using Git as an example, thank goodness there are options to roll back changes I made to a repo or re-fork should all hell break loose. 

You know what else I love? [Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com). I should look into getting a shirt that expresses that sentiment.

One milestone that I'm proud of is having completed the first project presentation with my group. I appreciate how the challenge was framed in terms of a client deliverable rather than simply completing a problem set. This gave us an opportunity to work on comminucation skills and think about why we did an analysis rather than to say we did it because we could. I have not yet acheived Confident Pythonista status, but I can write code that works even if it does take a me twice as long (:sob:) as my classmates. However! I felt like I was in familiar territory in strategizing our presentation. To summarize, the challenge was to optimize the placement of volunteers at NY subway stations in order to collect email signatures for an event hosted by a group whose aim is to get more women in tech. One obvious metric our group thought of was to determine peak commute times to target stations near tech companies as well as likely neighborhoods tech employees may reside in. I admit I was leaping ahead in considering how well income correlates with amount of money donated to charity because we were making the assumption that people who make more money will donate. I had [read](http://nccs.urban.org/data-statistics/charitable-giving-america-some-facts-and-figures) suggesting otherwise, but ultimately this remained conjecture as I didn't run the analysis to directly tie our subway entry data with income and our target audience (tech employees). Soon, when my technical abilities catch up with with my brain's wishlist of analyses...watch out!!  
